---
layout: post
title: How do we keep track of action plans?
description: 
tags: behavior dissemination instructions
categories: research
giscus_comments: true
date: 2024-03-01
toc: false
thumbnail: assets/img/2p2d.avif
---

[🔓 Open access](https://t.co/mNXBW2q6sW)

Recent research shows that items held in WM are dynamically prioritized, shifting between active and latent states according to their behavioral relevance. Our work aimed to extend these results, based on visual information, to more complex action plans maintained in WM.

In our task, participants coded sets of novel S-R mappings whose task relevance was parametrically manipulated with retrocues. Then, we quantified (in accuracy rates and DDM parameters) the interference exerted among mappings as a proxy of distinct functional WM states.

<div class="row" style="text-align: center;">
    <div class="col-sm mt-0 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/2p2d_1.jpg" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    
</div>

We showed that the more likely an S-R mapping is to become relevant, the greater its interference with ongoing behavior, evidencing flexible prioritization in WM. These results further suggest that functional states are held in non-orthogonal codes, prone to interference.

<div class="row" style="text-align: center;">
    <div class="col-sm mt-0 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/2p2d_2.jpg" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    
</div>


Our findings point towards a continuum of functional states within WM, challenging the dichotomic active/latent view. Overall, this research advances our understanding of how we adaptively represent information in WM to guide goal-oriented behavior.


<br>
**Data and code availability**


- Data and Code have been deposited at [OSF](https://osf.io/phxq4/)

- The experimental plan was preregisteted at [AsPredicted](hhttps://aspredicted.org/qe5mt.pdf).

 






